# Journal — {{9-13-2025}} — {{DAY 1}}

## 1) What I learned (bullets, not prose)
- How to get started with data pipelines.
- How to navigate DBeaver.
- How to query properly.
- Visualization with Metabase.
- Data Cleaning.
- ETL vs. ELT
- OLAP vs OLTP

## 2) New vocabulary (define in your own words)
- **Data engineering** — systematic moving and organizing of data.
- **SQL** — structured commands that allow us to pull data from the database.
- **Online Transaction Processing (OLTP)** — system that handles everyday transactions.
- **Online Analytical Processing (OLAP)** — system used for analyzing large amounts of data.
- **Extract, Transform, Load (ETL)** — preparing the data before putting it in the warehouse.
- **Extract, Load, Transform (ELT)** — putting the data into storage first before cleaning/transforming.


## 3) Data Engineering mindset applied (what principles did I use?)
- **Monitoring data quality** — I always made it a point to check if data is complete and accurate at each step.

## 4) Decisions & assumptions (why, alternatives, trade-offs)
- I did some test queries on DBeaver to see how different factors interact each other in the dataset provided. 

## 5) Open questions (things I still don’t get)
- What is the difference between WSL and Ubuntu? What are they for? I have no technical background to understand these things.
- Considering that DEs can also visualize data, what makes the domain of DA separate from the practice of DE?

## 6) Next actions (small, doable steps)
- [ ] - Catch up with all the technicalities
- [ ] - Practice running SQL queries
- [ ] - Practice SQL queries using different datasets

## 7) Artifacts & links (code, queries, dashboards)
- Auto MPG dataset: https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/9/auto+mpg

---

### Mini reflection (3–5 sentences)
What surprised me was how many small steps and details are involved in setting up something like Docker inside WSL, which I initially thought would be straightforward. I was very reckless in doing this, that is why I will be careful next time. Moreover, SQL queries surprisingly felt easy. I had a good time writing them. Moving forward, I will be more calculating in my pursuits and will practice more of what I already know. 
